# 🧩 808: Soup Servings

- **Difficulty**: `Medium`
- **Tags / Topics**: `Math`, `Dynamic Programming`, `Probability and Statistics`
- **Link**: [Leetcode](https://leetcode.com/problems/soup-servings/)

---

## 📜 Description

<p>You have two soups, <strong>A</strong> and <strong>B</strong>, each starting with <code>n</code> mL. On every turn, one of the following four serving operations is chosen <em>at random</em>, each with probability <code>0.25</code> <strong>independent</strong> of all previous turns:</p>

<ul>
	<li>pour 100 mL from type A and 0 mL from type B</li>
	<li>pour 75 mL from type A and 25 mL from type B</li>
	<li>pour 50 mL from type A and 50 mL from type B</li>
	<li>pour 25 mL from type A and 75 mL from type B</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Note:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>There is no operation that pours 0 mL from A and 100 mL from B.</li>
	<li>The amounts from A and B are poured <em>simultaneously</em> during the turn.</li>
	<li>If an operation asks you to pour <strong>more than</strong> you have left of a soup, pour all that remains of that soup.</li>
</ul>

<p>The process stops immediately after any turn in which <em>one of the soups</em> is used up.</p>

<p>Return the probability that A is used up <em>before</em> B, plus half the probability that both soups are used up in the<strong> same turn</strong>. Answers within <code>10<sup>-5</sup></code> of the actual answer will be accepted.</p>




## 🧪 Examples

### Example 1
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> n = 50
<strong>Output:</strong> 0.62500
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
If we perform either of the first two serving operations, soup A will become empty first.
If we perform the third operation, A and B will become empty at the same time.
If we perform the fourth operation, B will become empty first.
So the total probability of A becoming empty first plus half the probability that A and B become empty at the same time, is 0.25 * (1 + 1 + 0.5 + 0) = 0.625.
</pre>


### Example 2
<pre>
<strong>Input:</strong> n = 100
<strong>Output:</strong> 0.71875
<strong>Explanation:</strong> 
If we perform the first serving operation, soup A will become empty first.
If we perform the second serving operations, A will become empty on performing operation [1, 2, 3], and both A and B become empty on performing operation 4.
If we perform the third operation, A will become empty on performing operation [1, 2], and both A and B become empty on performing operation 3.
If we perform the fourth operation, A will become empty on performing operation 1, and both A and B become empty on performing operation 2.
So the total probability of A becoming empty first plus half the probability that A and B become empty at the same time, is 0.71875.
</pre>




## 📌 Constraints"
<ul>
	<li><code>0 &lt;= n &lt;= 10<sup>9</sup></code></li>
</ul>



---
<!--- code section starts -->
## 🧠 Code



<details>
<summary>Click to read Python code</summary>

```python
class Solution:
    def soupServings(self, n: int) -> float:
        if n > 5000:
            return 1

        @cache
        def dp(a, b):
            if a <= 0 and b <= 0:
                return 0.5
            if a <= 0:
                return 1
            if b <= 0:
                return 0

            res = 0.25 * dp(a - 100, b)
            res += 0.25 * dp(a - 75, b - 25)
            res += 0.25 * dp(a - 50, b - 50)
            res += 0.25 * dp(a - 25, b - 75)
            return res

        return dp(n, n)

```

</details>
    

<!--- code section ends -->
